# ***NguhRoutes*** mod
This is the mod version of NguhRoutes. It is currently pretty basic but it can give you a route to a station and tell you where you need to go next. It fetches the data for the network from the wiki.

**If you don't want to compile it yourself, go to releases on the side and download the jar from there.** Note that the mod requires you to have the Kotlin support installed, which you probably have for the main Nguhcraft mod, but you may have to get a newer version. If there is a such an issue it will give you an error when you try to launch.

The main command is `/nguhroutes`, with a shortcut `/nr`, and there is also `/nrs` as a shortcut for `/nguhroutes start`. If you don't want to include routes that cross into the Nether, do `/nguhroutes reload nonether`.

The mod uses [this file on the wiki](https://mc.nguh.org/wiki/Data:NguhRoutes/network.json) for its data. It downloads this file and precalculates all shortest routes whenever you start the game. For me this is done by the time I have actually gotten onto the server, but if this becomes a problem for some people I can look into adding caching so that it saves the routes on your computer and uses those if the network file on the wiki has not been updated.

## Measuring Lines
NguhRoutes has a set of commands for measuring line segments and generating the JSON for the network file. Keybinds are also available for these commands, so that you can quickly start/stop the timer. You could also use [CommandKeys](https://modrinth.com/mod/commandkeys) if you want more complex shortcuts. The tracking is done for each station, so you start the tracking at the one station, go to the next one, stop it, and then that gives you the information for the one that you stopped at with the time and distance since the previous one, and then you do the same for the next one etc. If you are adding to a line that already has data in the network file, make sure you are going in the same direction as the preexisting data. `/nr measure start` starts the tracking. Usually I do this while in a minecart and then press the button and go. `/nr measure stop` stops the tracking and copies the JSON for the end stop to your clipboard, with the time and distance since the start, which you can paste into the network file. You can also copy the last tracking information using `/nr measure copy`, and you can copy both the start and end stops using `/nr measure copy both`, which is useful at the start of a line. In the network file, each stop has the time and distance since the previous one, unless it is the first station or you cannot get there from the previous station (put `"impassable"` as a stop if the line is broken between two stations). For loops, put `"loop": true` as part of the line object and it will use the time from the first stop for the time that it takes to go from the last stop to the first. It is actually not strictly necessary to include the time and distance, so if `"time"` is not provided, it will approximate it using `"dist"`, and if that is not available it will calculate the Manhattan distance between the stops and try to use that. The coordinates must be provided however.  
